README.md, before:

# Haridd

A small action roguelite built with Python and Pygame. Fight through rooms, defeat the boss, and progress to the next area. ASCII room layouts map 1:1 to terrain in-game.

## Quick start (Windows)

```powershell
# From the project root
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
python -m pip install pygame
python main.py
```

If you have multiple Python versions installed, ensure you're using the right one:
```powershell
py -V            # shows Python version
py -m pip install pygame
py d:\game_dev\main.py
```

## Controls

- Move: A / D
- Jump: Space or K
- Dash: Left Shift or J
- Attack: L or Left Mouse
- Up/Down + Attack: Up/Down slash (Down = Pogo)
- Pause: Esc

Dev cheats (for testing):
- F1: Toggle God Mode
- F2: Teleport to Boss Room
- F3: Toggle Infinite Mana
- F4: Toggle Zero Cooldown (skills)

## Menu flow

1. Title
   - How to Play: Controls, tips, and class overview
   - Class Select: Choose Knight / Ranger / Wizard
   - Play Game: Start with the selected class (defaults to Knight)
2. In-game
   - Pause (Esc): Resume, Settings (placeholder), Main Menu, or Quit

## Classes

- Knight: Tanky melee. Shield/Power/Charge skills. Lower mobility, strong survivability.
- Ranger: Ranged damage. Charge shot, triple-shot that can bypass enemy i-frames.
- Wizard: Spells. Fireball, cold field (area), homing missiles, plus teleport.

Each class has unique resource bars (stamina/mana) and cooldowns shown on the HUD.

## Gameplay notes

- Enemies telegraph strong attacks with `!` or `!!`.
- Enemy projectiles are visible. Enemy friendly-fire is disabled.
- Boss rooms lock doors until the boss is defeated (doors turn red; HUD shows a hint).
- ASCII maps are parsed directly; each character is one tile wide.
  - `#` = solid wall/platform
  - `.` = empty space
  - `S` = player spawn
  - `D` = door to next room
   - `E` = Bug (basic enemy)
   - `f` = Frog
   - `r` = Archer
   - `w` = Wizard Caster
   - `a` = Assassin
   - `b` = Bee
   - `B` = Boss (classic)
   - `G` = Golem (boss)

## Monsters

Each enemy is drawn as a colored rectangle; during their invulnerability frames (shortly after being hit), they briefly use a darker variant of their color.

- Bug (`E`) — smart ground enemy
   - Color: RGB(180, 70, 160) violet; i-frames: RGB(120, 40, 100)
   - Behavior: Patrol/search/pursue using LOS; contact damage; can be slowed and take DOT; parry reflects damage.

- Frog (`f`) — telegraphed lunge
   - Color: RGB(80, 200, 80) green; i-frames: RGB(60, 120, 60)
   - Behavior: Shows `!` then performs a longer diagonal dash toward the player; touch damage on contact.

- Archer (`r`) — ranged shooter
   - Color: RGB(200, 200, 80) yellow; i-frames: RGB(120, 120, 60)
   - Skills: `!!` telegraph then fires an arrow (visible projectile) roughly matching player Ranger speed (10.0) and lifetime (120). Sidesteps if too close.

- Wizard Caster (`w`) — spellcaster
   - Color: RGB(180, 120, 220) lavender; i-frames: RGB(110, 80, 140)
   - Skills (with `!!` telegraph):
      - Bolt: fast, light projectile.
      - Missile: very fast, high-damage projectile.
      - Fireball: slower projectile that explodes with AoE (radius ~48).

- Assassin (`a`) — melee specialist
   - Color: RGB(60, 60, 80) dark slate; i-frames: RGB(40, 40, 60)
   - Patterns: Randomly chooses between `!` dash (diagonal dash, spawns short sword hitboxes while dashing) and `!!` forward slash (short sword hitbox).

- Bee (`b`) — hybrid dasher/shooter
   - Color: RGB(240, 180, 60) amber; i-frames: RGB(140, 120, 50)
   - Patterns: Chooses between `!` dash and `!!` ranged shot (arrow-like projectile; visible).

- Boss (`B`) — classic heavy
   - Color: RGB(200, 100, 40) orange-brown; i-frames: RGB(140, 80, 30)
   - Behavior: High HP, slow pursuit, strong contact damage; affected by slow/DOT; doors lock in boss rooms until defeated.

- Golem (`G`) — boss with multiple patterns
   - Color: RGB(140, 140, 160) steel; i-frames: RGB(100, 100, 120)
   - Patterns: `!` diagonal dash, `!!` shoot, `!!` radial stun (AoE) that applies a stun tag within ~72 radius.

## Repo layout

- `main.py` — Game loop, menus (Title/How to Play/Class Select/Pause), HUD, collisions
- `level.py` — ASCII room definitions, parsing, drawing, door lock coloring
- `entities.py` — Player and enemies, skills, projectiles, hitboxes, AIs
- `camera.py` — Camera to-screen transforms
- `config.py` — Config constants (sizes, colors, FPS)
- `utils.py` — Fonts, text drawing, helpers

## Collaboration tips

- Use a consistent Python version (3.11+ recommended) and Pygame 2.6+.
- Before pushing, run the game locally to verify no errors.
- Keep rooms ASCII-aligned (each line same width). Unknown characters are treated as empty.
- When adding enemies or skills, tag hitboxes with an `owner` and use `visual_only` for telegraphs or non-damaging areas.
- Prefer small focused commits with clear messages (e.g., “Add wizard cold field slow”).
- If you change controls or UI, update this README and the How to Play screen.

### Suggested workflow for pair dev

- Create a branch per feature (e.g., `feature/assassin-patterns`).
- Coordinate room edits: agree on which room index each person is editing to avoid conflicts.
- Test the boss-door locking logic if you change boss spawns (rooms with `G`/`B` are considered boss rooms).
- Keep projectile lifetimes bounded to avoid perf spikes.

## Troubleshooting

- If the window doesn’t open, verify that Pygame installed successfully and Python can import it.
- If fonts look off-size, the fallback font is used; adjust sizes in `utils.get_font` if needed.
- On very small displays, reduce `WIDTH`/`HEIGHT` in `config.py`.

Commit message:

add level teleport into debugger menu

README.md, after:

# Haridd

A small action roguelite built with Python and Pygame. Fight through rooms, defeat the boss, and progress to the next area. ASCII room layouts map 1:1 to terrain in-game.

## Quick start (Windows)

```powershell
# From the project root
python -m pip install --upgrade pip
python -m pip install pygame
python main.py
```

If you have multiple Python versions installed, ensure you're using the right one:
```powershell
py -V            # shows Python version
py -m pip install pygame
py d:\game_dev\main.py
```

## Controls

- Move: A / D
- Jump: Space or K
- Dash: Left Shift or J
- Attack: L or Left Mouse
- Up/Down + Attack: Up/Down slash (Down = Pogo)
- Inventory: I (opens the mid-run inventory overlay)
- Consume slot 1 / 2 / 3: 4 / 5 / 6
- Pause: Esc

Dev cheats (for testing):
- F1: Toggle God Mode (also available inside the debugger menu)
- F2: Teleport to Boss Room
- F3: Toggle Infinite Mana
- F4: Toggle Zero Cooldown (skills)
- F5: Open the debugger menu (pause overlay) that lets you toggle all cheats, show/hide enemy vision rays, and instantly refill consumables.

## Menu flow

1. Title
   - How to Play: Controls, tips, and class overview
   - Class Select: Choose Knight / Ranger / Wizard
   - Play Game: Start with the selected class (defaults to Knight)
2. In-game
   - Pause (Esc): Resume, Settings (placeholder), Main Menu, or Quit

## Classes

- Knight: Tanky melee. Shield/Power/Charge skills. Lower mobility, strong survivability.
- Ranger: Ranged damage. Charge shot, triple-shot that can bypass enemy i-frames.
- Wizard: Spells. Fireball, cold field (area), homing missiles, plus teleport.

Each class has unique resource bars (stamina/mana) and cooldowns shown on the HUD.

### Inventory & consumables

- Press `I` in-game to open the inventory overlay. It shows:
  - Player stats, gear slots, a model preview, and a list of consumables.
  - Three consumable slots mapped to keys `4/5/6` with icons and names inside each slot.
  - A reminder footer explaining how to close the overlay.
- Default consumables:
  - **Health Flask** — restores 3 HP.
  - **Mana Vial** — restores 10 MP.
  - **Speed Tonic** — grants a temporary “Haste” buff that speeds up attack/dash/skill cooldown recovery. A HUD label appears while it is active.
- Consumables can also be refilled instantly from the debugger menu (F5 ➜ “Refill Consumables”).

### Debugger menu

Press `F5` at any time during gameplay to open the debugger overlay. From there you can:

- Toggle God Mode, Infinite Mana, and Zero Cooldown without remembering individual hotkeys.
- Jump directly to the boss room, teleport to any room via a level picker, or close the menu.
- Enable/disable enemy vision rays to visualize their current line-of-sight target.
- Instantly refill all consumable slots for quick testing of the hotbar interactions.

## Gameplay notes

- Enemies telegraph strong attacks with `!` or `!!`.
- Enemy projectiles are visible. Enemy friendly-fire is disabled.
- Boss rooms lock doors until the boss is defeated (doors turn red; HUD shows a hint).
- Enemy line-of-sight (vision) rays can be toggled on/off from the debugger menu to debug aggro behavior.
- ASCII maps are parsed directly; each character is one tile wide.
  - `#` = solid wall/platform
  - `.` = empty space
  - `S` = player spawn
  - `D` = door to next room
   - `E` = Bug (basic enemy)
   - `f` = Frog
   - `r` = Archer
   - `w` = Wizard Caster
   - `a` = Assassin
   - `b` = Bee
   - `B` = Boss (classic)
   - `G` = Golem (boss)

## Monsters

Each enemy is drawn as a colored rectangle; during their invulnerability frames (shortly after being hit), they briefly use a darker variant of their color.

- Bug (`E`) — smart ground enemy
   - Color: RGB(180, 70, 160) violet; i-frames: RGB(120, 40, 100)
   - Behavior: Patrol/search/pursue using LOS; contact damage; can be slowed and take DOT; parry reflects damage.

- Frog (`f`) — telegraphed lunge
   - Color: RGB(80, 200, 80) green; i-frames: RGB(60, 120, 60)
   - Behavior: Shows `!` then performs a longer diagonal dash toward the player; touch damage on contact.

- Archer (`r`) — ranged shooter
   - Color: RGB(200, 200, 80) yellow; i-frames: RGB(120, 120, 60)
   - Skills: `!!` telegraph then fires an arrow (visible projectile) roughly matching player Ranger speed (10.0) and lifetime (120). Sidesteps if too close.

- Wizard Caster (`w`) — spellcaster
   - Color: RGB(180, 120, 220) lavender; i-frames: RGB(110, 80, 140)
   - Skills (with `!!` telegraph):
      - Bolt: fast, light projectile.
      - Missile: very fast, high-damage projectile.
      - Fireball: slower projectile that explodes with AoE (radius ~48).

- Assassin (`a`) - melee specialist
   - Color: RGB(60, 60, 80) dark slate; i-frames: RGB(40, 40, 60)
   - Patterns: Randomly chooses between `!` dash (diagonal dash, spawns short sword hitboxes while dashing) and `!!` forward slash (short sword hitbox).

- Bee (`b`) — hybrid dasher/shooter
   - Color: RGB(240, 180, 60) amber; i-frames: RGB(140, 120, 50)
   - Patterns: Chooses between `!` dash and `!!` ranged shot (arrow-like projectile; visible).

- Boss (`B`) — classic heavy
   - Color: RGB(200, 100, 40) orange-brown; i-frames: RGB(140, 80, 30)
   - Behavior: High HP, slow pursuit, strong contact damage; affected by slow/DOT; doors lock in boss rooms until defeated.

- Golem (`G`) — boss with multiple patterns
   - Color: RGB(140, 140, 160) steel; i-frames: RGB(100, 100, 120)
   - Patterns: `!` diagonal dash, `!!` shoot, `!!` radial stun (AoE) that applies a stun tag within ~72 radius.

## Repo layout

- `main.py` — Game loop, menus (Title/How to Play/Class Select/Pause), HUD, collisions
- `level.py` — ASCII room definitions, parsing, drawing, door lock coloring
- `entities.py` — Player and enemies, skills, projectiles, hitboxes, AIs
- `camera.py` — Camera to-screen transforms
- `config.py` — Config constants (sizes, colors, FPS)
- `utils.py` — Fonts, text drawing, helpers

## Collaboration tips

- Use a consistent Python version (3.11+ recommended) and Pygame 2.6+.
- Before pushing, run the game locally to verify no errors.
- Keep rooms ASCII-aligned (each line same width). Unknown characters are treated as empty.
- When adding enemies or skills, tag hitboxes with an `owner` and use `visual_only` for telegraphs or non-damaging areas.
- Prefer small focused commits with clear messages (e.g., "Add wizard cold field slow").
- If you change controls or UI, update this README and the How to Play screen.
- When you introduce new consumables or buffs, wire them through the catalog in `main.py` so the HUD and inventory automatically pick them up.

### Suggested workflow for pair dev

- Create a branch per feature (e.g., `feature/assassin-patterns`).
- Coordinate room edits: agree on which room index each person is editing to avoid conflicts.
- Test the boss-door locking logic if you change boss spawns (rooms with `G`/`B` are considered boss rooms).
- Keep projectile lifetimes bounded to avoid perf spikes.

## Troubleshooting

- If the window doesn’t open, verify that Pygame installed successfully and Python can import it.
- If fonts look off-size, the fallback font is used; adjust sizes in `utils.get_font` if needed.
- On very small displays, reduce `WIDTH`/`HEIGHT` in `config.py`.
